So, just before I start this video, I want to point out a couple of
things. Firstly, I want to say thank you to Rafael
who has posted a detailed post here, over in
the discussions against this lecture, explaining how
if you want to you don't need to install the entire Android
Studio; you can just install the Android SDK.
Now, just in case his discussion item gets removed,
for some reason in Udemy, I've also attached a screenshot
of this long discussion post against this lecture, in
the resources against the lecture where you do your downloads.
So if you want, you can follow those instructions,
and just download and install the SDK for simplicity,
if you're pushed for space, but if you're not sure about
any of that, just carry on, follow my instructions, and download the whole of Android
Studio. That will work for you just as well! The other thing I wanted
to say was that, my sound quality is going to change
sharply in just a second, because the rest of this video is recorded with
a different type of mic because I actually
hold a mobile phone and
show you that, so I have a different mic. OK, see you soon!
So, we're going to be setting up the Build Settings
for Android, actually deploying to an Android device,
which I'm really excited about, because it's so satisfying when you get
to feel a game on a device, even though you can imagine it,
it's just different. And then, we'll be doing a little bit of
play testing on the device. Now, you're going to need your Android
device connected to your computer, via
a USB cable. So,
let's get on with it!
OK, let's start by getting Developer Mode enabled
on your Android phone, because we're going to need that for it
to work properly. So, here we have my
Google Nexus 4 Android phone,
and what I'm going to do is show you, in case you haven't already
done it, how to get Developer Mode enabled. Well, go to Settings,
and this will look a little different if you're in a previous version of Android
but the same idea, you're typical Settings Menu.
And at the bottom of your Settings Menu, you're going to have
an About Phone option.
Click on that and go to the bottom, where it says Build number, and just keep
clicking and eventually it'll pop up. Now, for me it says "No need, you
are already a developer." But in your case, if you click enough times, I think
it's five, it should say Developer Mode Enabled. Awesome!
So then, you go back, and then you'll have this
Developer Options option. Go
into that, turn on the Developer Settings,
and then, you want USB
Debugging. That's the one you want there.
Allow USB debugging.
OK, so Developer Options on, USB Debugging
is on, and you'll get a notification similar to this. USB Debugging connected.
Perfect! If you're in that state,
your phone is ready to receive the game from Unity,
when we get there. So, let's go over to Unity
and take a look at what we need to do at that end.
So, here we are back in Unity! Go to
File and Build Settings. Click on
Android, and then Switch Platform here,
at the bottom left of the Build Settings.
Now, you'll get a certain amount of compilations and
asset re-importing going on. One of the things it's doing
here is making sure, for instance, all your music files are in an Android
compatible format. Android
is a little more compatible than iOS. When we get to iOS you need
to make sure that you have no .ogg files, in your sound.
OK cool! So that's done! All these settings on the right hand
side, we can leave. Player settings, however, we want to check.
A couple of things that do need to be changed,
I would change at least your Product Name,
because that's what's going
to be on your logo, on your actual app.
So, change your Product Name. Then, make sure that
the Android Button is depressed here, on the target platforms,
and let's just look up through. Resolution and Presentation
firstly. We don't want Portrait, so
uptick both of the Portrait options. This game is not designed
to be Portrait. Everything else can stay the same.
Icon, if you want you can put yourself an
Icon in. I'm not going to be doing that for this example.
Splash Image, we can't change the Splash Image on the
free version of Unity, anyway, but we have made a workaround, as we showed
you. Other settings, nothing to do
at the top under Rendering, but under other settings
Identification is critical, but you set your
Bundle Identifier. If you don't do that it won't work.
So, use something like your name. I'm going to use my company name,
or use your company name, if you have one.
And the, .GlitchGarden.
So, you can just put com.myname and you can even
say myname.GlitchGarden or
put your name in there or your company name. OK, that's the important
bit that the Bundle Identifier matches that pattern, put com
.name.GlitchGarden. Perfect!
Everything else on there you can leave the same, and again, with the
Publishing Settings, nothing needs changing. Let's just
click Build and Run and see what happens.
Save it somewhere sensible, on your computer,
in case you want to keep that Android Build,
and then, just let Unity
do its thing.
So, it's compiling your assets, it's building
a target package, etc., etc.
And then, pushing new content
to device, and it's found my Nexus 4.
And if you have any problems here, make sure your USB cable is
connected directly and that you're definitely in
this USB Debugging mode, on your machine.
Now, your Android may become unresponsive for a minute,
while it pushes the app onto it. That's happening to mine
right now. It's not responding to my presses, but
it'll actually just load the game.
Here we go! Get ready for it! It"s going to be exciting! I'm going to turn the
sound up a bit.
[Game Music Playing in Background] There we go! That
was the sound of Glitch Garden loading, and there it
is. Now, if we click the Quit Button, should it
find it actually quits, because we have that quit request actually doing
something. Now, we're on our platform!
Again, let's find where it is on the Android device.
If you go to your Apps Button, you'll find,
if you called it Glitch Garden, it's there under the G's with a default Unity
logo. If you changed the logo in the Build Settings,
then it'll give you the logo you changed it to. Click on it,
watch it rotate very brief
Unity Splash Screen, then our Splash Screen,
then the Options Screen, and then
we can turn the volume up. And let's just
test that turning that volume up to maximum actually persists.
So, let's quit the game.
Now remember, this initial sound is designed to
be the same, every time, so that we can get our System
Volume right. And then the Game Volume, let's see!
Yes, we've written to Player Prefs on the phone! It's
staying maximum. Awesome!
So, let's just have a go at the game, and see if there are any obvious things that need fixing.
[Game Music Playing in Background] Here it is,
Glitch Garden running on my Android! By the way, you don't need to be tethered
anymore, the app is now on your phone, and you can go running
around the country side, showing all your friends.
Look at this! I hope you feel proud of yourself,
that you've got your creation on an actual phone.
[Game Music Playing in Background]
Pretty cool! Now, one thing you will notice is, you can't
get out of this very easily. The Back Button doesn't do anything,
and if we go back to the Home Screen
and then back into Glitch Garden,
we're just going to end up where we stayed. So,
make yourself a note, right now, of Glitch Garden improvements.
One to me is that, we need to make sure that we create a Pause
Menu and a way of players getting out of it. The other thing to
check, if you do want to reset the game, click
your Multitasking Button and swipe away Glitch Garden
like this. So, this Multitasking Button here with
my little finger, then swipe away. Now,
you can reload. If you're wondering what that background
is, I have if this then that, if T T T,
changed to a NASA image that some dude in
a space station, which is pretty cool! So,
go back into it. Now look, does the Back Button cause a problem
at this stage? No. And does the Back Button cause
the problem at this stage? No, but thank you to
one of our students for asking that question. It's a very good question.
It's not causing us a problem. Alright, so the only improvement we
have to record is that, we need to
make sure that we create some sort of way of quitting the game.
So congratulations on actually
building your game to Android! That's a huge achievement! Hopefully it's really
satisfying. I want you now to make sure that you have
actually done this yourself, so get it running on your device!
Excitedly run away and show somebody, anybody
even on the street. Capture a screenshot! Remember on
Android how you capture a screenshot? If you're not sure let
me just very briefly show you. So, back into the game.
Depending on your device, I'm pretty sure all Android
devices, you hold down the Power Button, up here, and the Volume
Down Button down there. And if you just hold those down together,
Power and Volume Down, you get a flash and that screenshot
is now in your Gallery, on your Android device.
It should then be a simple matter to get that onto your
computer by e-mail or whatever, and then share it with
the discussions group. I want to see actual deployed
games OK, so share it in the discussions. Also, share
it on the Facebook group. We have a very friendly group, over here.
At Facebook.com/groups/
completeunitydeveloper. Submit your photo, if you want
to be part of this group, as well. I update the collage every week or so.
This group is being run by a couple
of our students, which is fantastic of them both, Joshua,
Josh Farrow is running it! Also, Robert
here, Robert Marcum is another Admin on the group.
He's helping to run the community. But do post your
game on here, as well, or your screenshot,
because the idea of this group is to share
not only with other students but with people, your general friends on
Facebook. Invite them into the group, share your ideas with them,
and that's the next step, after sharing with the discussions.
The next step is to go even more public by sharing
with everybody in this group. Bring your friends into this group,
get their feedback, and also, they may have ideas about what game
you should be creating. So well done!
There's your challenge,
I've shown you how to do it. I'll leave you to it.
See you soon!